As is said in classics, reflecting on the past leads to action in the future. The past year, as always, had exceptional results compared to the efforts I had put in and the following are things I am most grateful for.

1. Gained and lost (thankfully) 20 Kgs.
2. Obsessively played Badminton for 6 months and then had enough of it.
3. Almost launched and spectacularly crashed a start-up.
4. Learned a bit more about business strategies, accounting (filed my own ITR already), and marketing.
5. Went on 4 amazing trips.
6. Became more socially active (made an unexpectedly lot of young, smart, and happy connections (in real life as well)).
7. Got my Guitar fixed (included to make this list a little bigger).

I am compelled to share these 7 ambitious goals for the upcoming year that I have made for myself. But.
Why goals? 
It is essential to have a definite aim when one takes up any in-depth study; otherwise, it is more likely that the effort will be half-hearted and incomplete. 

Why ambitious goals? 
Sometimes, it is important to have ambitious enough goals just so those small distractions cannot bother you anymore. 

Why am I sharing these goals? 
Cause it is impossible to realize personal excellence without contributing to the common interest (A shared interest in a specific subject that brings people together to form a community), as the nature we are trying to perfect is that of a rational, social animal.

Why 7?
Everything doesn’t need a reason!!

The goals:
1. Fitness: Build strength, endurance, and flexibility. Iron man (half) triathlon: 90 km cycling, 2 km swimming, 21 km running https://www.ironman.com/im703-goa. 
2. Sports: Learn acrobatics like Flips, Handsprings and Handstands. Share at least 12 acrobatic moves on social media.
3. Software Project: Create and market an App that helps us achieve our most ambitious goals. Get at least 12 Authentic users for the app.
4. Music: Learn Vocals and classical music. Share at least 12 musical pieces on social media.
5. Get Smarter: Read at least 50 books in the following genres: Biographies, Self-Development, Programming, Marketing, non-fiction. Write Journal/Blog and Share what I learn on social media.
6. Surround me with smart, fit, creative, and happy people: Attract at least 12 new people who make me better and write about them.
7. Eat right, sleep tight and laugh often. Have at least 240 days with the right sleep, food, and humour.