---
title: "Ruchi"
---

I am asked to tell a story about my sister when she was at her best and a story about her when she was at her low. 

We come from a very conservative family. We belonged to a society where it was quite common for daughters and sons to take up household and office duties respectively right after the school. 

Though our parents made sure that we got the best school education possible, they were quite sceptical of sending their first child (and their only daughter) away in a foreign city for higher education due to both safety and societal norms they were accustomed to. 

My sister's world came crashing down when she came to know that her fate was bounded and she did not have a choice to pursue her dreams of higher studies and a campus life.

But my sister had never been the one to accept the destiny as it was served to her. She studied hard, day and night (hampering my sleep on the way but thats a story for another day), with devotion to prove herself worthy of her dreams. She got admission, not once but twice, to country's most prestigious colleges for her bachelor's and master's studies. 

Her dedication were so lofty that it became a sin to cage her aspirations. Our parents understood that she has acquired the will of god and no one could stop her. Henceforth, with a lot of courage and trust, they helped her pursue her dreams and she had never let them down. My sister did not only break the old social norms that bounded her but she reinvented it. A lot of kids and parents in our society now look upto her as inspiration.

Honestly, I cannot recount any such story where she ends up in a low. She simply does not belong to the family of quitters. Every time life hit her hard, she came back harder.
