Yesterday was amazing. The first very disciplined day. Went to badminton in morning and walking in evening. Did not eat much during the day or night. Worked and shipped importanrt features for seoexpert ai. in fact went overboard and worked too hard a bit in night.

Today missed the badminton but started working fine and didnt eat much either. planning to go to cycling in evening and follow it with a workout.

i am a little bit nervous about the seo product. not sure if people will like it or pay for it. I have a lot of yearnings and their are times when i start things out to fullfill those yearnings but with time as it becomes more complicated and takes more time, the energy fizzles out

couple of example recentgly is that i made ai questions battle game and planned to mke more such games like RST and whats your job and like. I put in a lot of effort, learned new things but didnt ship it completely. Pretty sure that experience is going to help in future but still not completing the project is a bad habit.

i feel there is also a word for this, when u start working on something and v1 is not so good and u dont share it with anyone nor u work on it anylonger. that;s the fate of side projects i guess. i also put a lot of effort on directory submission tool but have not started marketing on it. marketing is tough. showing something u make to others is tough. its like asking someone how do i look when u know u r not the most looking person out there.

Anyway, I havent abandoned the projects yet. Will slowly but surely work on it again. It is really hard to work on building a project alone and market it alone too. building is quite different from marrketing. marketing is like a performace while building is like practicing for that performance.

there is an element of nervousness to the performance when u know u r not completely ready and u might just fall on the stage.

a lot of people have advocated ship fast but i guess that works only when there is a lack of performance and public is ready to see anyone dance. but in crowded markets, u need to prepare and put your best foot forward.

i can remember a lot of things that i started practicing/building but never completed or performed/marketed. in the end it seems its just laziness on my part not to practice or devote time in building.

Building on my analogy of building and selling stuff and practicing and performing art, i think creativity is something which goes during the building and practicing part and rarely during the selling or performing part.

but does every creative art practice is creative? i dont think so. once you have built the structure and set of instructions that u need to follow then it just memorising and no real creative. that requires a lot of focus and convergent thinking. you need to go into detail, to perfect the process. however building something really new requires a lot of divergent thinking instead. u need to talk to a lot of people, take a lot of notes, and then sit down to create a guide.


guide to creative process:

talk to a lot of people, see a lot of existing art/software/products/marketing to take inspiration from (think as diverse as possible). write down every idea. filter out the bad ones. and start practicing the good ones in detail and iterate (now in this step u r back to convergent thinking).

once u have perfected the process, and any other person is following or learning the same process, its not creative be it art, software, or science.

thats the reason i think both science and art (and business, engineering, and marketing) is creative cause all requires creating something new. however the goal of science is knowledge through experimentation, art is to evoke and express emotions, engineering is to generate utility and marketing is to spread the utility.

but what do u yearn for? science, art, engineering, or marketing? or just the money and fame that come at the end of performance? i would say as humans our most actions and reactions are motivated by money and glory and rarely anything but that.

