I'm trying to start journaling once again to reflect and become more self-aware. Life happens, and somehow I keep forgetting the personal growth journey.

I believe this is the most important journey, as it can support other aspects of life. A lot has happened lately, and it would be beneficial to start writing down my thoughts again.

The day began positively; I woke up at 6, played a good game of badminton, and now I'm in the library to start the day.

Next year will be crucial as I will be turning 27. I need to rebuild my foundation, and this time, make it stronger. The first time I focused on personal growth was when I got into college. The environment pushed me to be healthier, worry less, make friends, and work on my career.

COVID shattered the foundation I built during college. I gained weight and developed bad habits like staying up late. Essentially, I sacrificed my foundation to work on campus media at that time.

After COVID ended in 2021, I restarted my personal growth journey, which I have described in detail [here](https://rushout09.github.io/2021/12/31/Reflections-2021-and-goals-2022.html).

Everything was going quite well for the first half of 2022, after which I lost control of my personal growth again and got involved in building startups and projects. The last year and a half were incredible but came at the cost of personal growth. I left my job, joined a VC accelerator program, made some cool friends, returned to Surat, experienced depression, and built and sold Vedvaani with a decent outcome.

Building a startup comes at a great personal cost as it is quite volatile. However, I need to change this. I need to grow with discipline and tame the chaos.

I have very clear goals for the next six months and have planned activities for each day.

The goals are as follows:
1. Lose 30 kg and get fit (along with improving my badminton skills).
2. Scale SEOExpert AI to generate 3 lakh per month in revenue (along with raising some funding).

While doing this, I will try to be more disciplined and grow personally. Having experienced the journey twice of building good habits and then sacrificing them to build startups, hopefully, this time I will avoid making the same mistakes again.